In this section, we'll talk
about characters and strings.
As we've already seen, the
character type can hold values
that represent characters.
These values are basically integers
that match to a character set
like the ASCII character set.
And we've also seen that strings
are sequences of characters.
C++ supports two types of strings,
c-style strings and c++ strings.
So will first look at
the cctype library.
This is a library a very simple
but very useful functions
that work with characters.
For example, we can test
characters to see if they're
uppercase to lowercase, numeric,
alphanumeric, punctuation and more.
We can also convert characters
between lower and uppercase.
After we learn about the cctype
functions, we'll talk about strings.
As I said earlier, you can think of
strings is a sequence of characters.
So far, we've only used
string literals, which were
represented as a sequence of
characters inside double quotes.
I'll discuss both c-style strings
and c++ strings in this section and
give you the basics of using each.
However, you should be using
c++ strings in modern c++.
I think you'll understand why
at the end of this section.
First we'll see what c-style
strings are and how they
represented in memory.
Then we'll see how to work with
c-style strings using some of the
string functions available in the
cstring and cstandard lib libraries.
Then we'll learn about c++ strings.
C++ strings are objects,
just like are vectors were.
And they're used using an
object-oriented style of programming.
In this section, will learn
how to declare, initialize,
assign, compare and use some of
the other c++ string methods.
Methods are functions
that work with objects.
So let's look at c-style
strings first in the next video.